## Character Creation
Characters are a collection of aspects, flaws, stunts, skills, gear, and other features. They are built using a pool of starting refresh that can be turned basically any feature of the character.f the character.

#### Aspects
Aspects are a fundamental part of a character, describing them and their place in the narrative. Each character has several different ones:

**High Concept:** The one phrase elevator pitch for your character. Example: ***The Only Wizard in the Phonebook*** or ***Keeper of the Lost Tome of Cariny***
**Trouble:** What tends to draw your character into conflict or distract them from their goals. Example: ***Shiny!***, ***Curiosity of a Cat***, or ***Quarry of the Wyrd Hunt***
**Motivation/Goal:**
**Relationship:**
**Other Aspect:**
**Other Aspect:**
Destiny Aspect?

Characters may gain temporary situational aspects, but otherwise are loosely limited to these. Aspects have no refresh cost.

#### Skills
Skills are the standard abilities characters are good at. When picking skills, refresh is traded for skill points at the cost of one refresh for 4 skill points. Any skill without points is rated at a +0. Each point spent on a skill is equal to a +1, so 3 points spent on a skill means a +3. The maximum number of points that can be spent on a skill is equal to the number of refresh spent on skills.

A standard fate core character spends around 5 refresh (20 skill points) on skills, and spreads that over 12 skills - one at +4, two at +3, three at +2, four at +1, to form a skill pyramid.

**[Optional] Skill Columns:** Players can be required to support their higher level skills with a column of lower level skills below, such that for each +4 skill a player has, they also have a +3 skill, +2 skill, and a +1 skill. This leads to more well rounded characters, particularly if using the skill pyramid.

**[Optional] Untrained Skills:** Characters who don’t have a skill points in a skill roll at a -1, rather than +0 representing their lack of training. This makes rolling skills outside of a characters depth much more punishing, which can be appropriate for some settings.

#### Stunts
Stunts are special abilities that a character has, helping them to do awesome things. Each stunt breaks the core rules in some way, giving a character a bonus they wouldn't have gotten in a special circumstances, allowing them to swap one skill for another in specific cases, or even creating a whole new action the character can take. In general, a stunt is worth a +2 to a skill in a specific situation and costs one refresh. If a player wants a stunt more powerful then this, they can either increase the refresh cost or impose a limit.

Common Stunt Abilities:
- Rules exception
- +2 in a specific situation
- Auto succeed in specific situations
- Declare a story detail for free
- Swap skills for specific situation
- Specialize skills
- Increase scale in certain scenarios

Common Limits:
- Once per session
- Cost a fate point

**[Optional] Flaws:** Flaws are stunts that impose penalties on a character in exchange for extra refresh. This could include things like worse stress recovery, lowered skills in some situations, and, if the table agrees, and additional trouble aspect that can be compelled without the player receiving a fate point.

#### Stress & Consequences
Stress boxes and consequences are typically gained through skills, though feasible could be increased through stunts. Additional boxes or consequences aren't directly bought with refresh.

**[Optional] Conditions:** Conditions are like specialized stress tracks and/or consequences slots that can only be activated in specific situations. This could be used to represent a barbarians rage or debts to a fae. Cost typically ranges from 1-3 refresh, depending on the potency of the condition, as agreed on by the players.

#### Gear
Characters can purchase loot to be a part of their character sheet. Loot costs the total effective refresh used to build it, minus any adjustments. Adding gear can be particularly useful for characterization and flavor, such as when playing a gadgeteer, or a character that would possess an item of significance that goes beyond their aspects.

#### [Optional] Allies, Companions, and Patrons
Allies, companions, and patrons are three different but similar things, each having coming to the aid of a character or the party at a specific cost.

**Companions** are the simplest, functioning as an extra character the player controls, tied either to a specific PC or occasionally a party organization. They have the same character sheet as the PC’s, expect that, they can’t have Companions, Allies, and Patrons of their own, and are limited to three aspects (**High Concept, Trouble/Goal, and Another Aspect**). Companions cost to their host PC refresh equal to the companions total effective refresh +1.

**Allies**

**Patrons** Give benefit for some cost, might be a parent organization, or something

#### [Optional] Reputation Track
PC’s, parties, and other major characters each have an extra called the reputation track, with entries for each region or local they’ve been to and made an impression on. Each entry has a fame/infamy skill, along with a reputation aspect that describe the character of their reputation. These can be interacted with like normal skills and aspects. At the end of a session, if the PC’s or party took major actions (or inaction) in a region the aspect can be updated. Increasing the fame/infamy skill and swapping out the reputation aspect can either be done at advancements or as a reward by the party at the end of Arc round-up

> [+2] **Slayer of The Velvet King**

The track can also be simplified to one general reputation, with the level of fame/infamy also describing how far and wide the character is known.
