## Default Skill List
Skill cap is the total amount of refresh a player has spent on skill points.

| Physical   | Mental   | Social      | Technical       | Specialty |
|------------|----------|-------------|-----------------|-----------|
| Physique   | Will     | Empathy     | Burglary        | Drive     |
| Fight      | Lore     | Deceive     | Notice          | Crafts    |
| Shoot      | Arcana   | Contacts    | Investigate     |           |
| Stealth    | Nature   | Provoke     | Animal Handling |           |
| Athletics  | Religion | Rapport     | Survival        |           |
| Acrobatics | Medicine | Performance | Slight of Hand  |           |

#### Physical Skills
Skills focused on a person's body, movement, and fitness, as well as physical conflicts

**Physique:** [Stress Track] Raw power and durability. Physique stunts let you perform superhuman feats of strength, throw your weight around while wrestling, and shrug off physical consequences.

**Fight:** Ability to excel at hand-to-hand combat, whether with weapons or fists. Fight stunts include signature weapons and special techniques.

**Shoot:** All forms of ranged combat, whether guns, throwing knives, or bow and arrow. Shoot stunts let you make called shots, quick-draw, or always have a gun handy.

**Stealth:** Staying unseen or unheard and escaping when you need to hide. Stealth stunts let you vanish in plain sight, blend into crowds, or advance through shadows unseen.

**Athletics:** A measurement of physical potential and feats of sportsmanship. Athletics stunts focus on movement—running, jumping, parkour—and dodging attacks

**Acrobatics:** Dexterous movement flying through the air or traveling over slim ledges. Acrobatics stunts might allow you scale impossible things or fit through impossible spaces.

#### Mental Skills
Skills focused on knowledge, understanding of the world, and the

**Will:** [Stress Track] Mental fortitude, the ability to overcome temptation, conduct rituals, prevent magical malfunctions of electronics, and to withstand trauma. Will stunts let you ignore mental consequences, withstand the mental agony of strange powers, and hold steady against enemies who provoke you.

**Lore:** Understanding and knowledge of tales and legends. Also covers history in games without a history skill

**Arcana:** Knowledge of magics and arcane weirdness

**Nature:** Knowledge of the natural/organic world

**Religion:** Understanding and practicing of religion

**Medicine:** Patching people up

#### Social Skills
Skills about communicating with, and manipulating others. Whether Rapport or Empathy is used for the social stress track will depend on campaign.

**Empathy:** [Stress Track] Ability to accurately judge someone’s mood and intentions. Empathy stunts can be about judging a crowd, picking up on lies, or helping others recover from mental consequences.

**Deceive:** Ability to lie and cheat convincingly and with aplomb. Deceive stunts might improve your ability to tell a particular breed of lie or help invent false identities

**Contacts:** Knowledge of the right people and connections that can help you. Contacts stunts give you ready allies and an information network wherever you go in the world

**Provoke:** Ability to push people to act the way you want them to, whether in conversation or combat. It’s coarse and manipulative, not a positive interaction. Provoke stunts let you push opponents into foolhardy action, draw aggression toward you, or scare enemies (assuming they can feel fear).

**Rapport:** [Stress Track] Building connections with others and working together. Where Provoke is manipulation, Rapport is sincerity, trust, and goodwill. Rapport stunts let you sway the crowd, improve relationships, or build contacts.

**Performance:** Performance is used to put on a show and entertain people for profit, pleasure, and distraction. Performance stunts may give you a bonus to certain styles of performing, or allow you to always have an instrument on hand.

#### Technical Skills
Skills and talents your average adventurer needs

**Burglary:** Knowledge of and ability to bypass security systems, steal anything and generally commit crimes. Burglary stunts give bonuses to the various stages of committing a crime, from the planning to the execution and escape

**Slight of Hand:** Magic tricking, pickpocketing, and lockpicking

**Notice:** Ability to pick up details in the moment, spot trouble before it happens, and generally be perceptive. It contrasts Investigate, which is for slow, deliberate observation. Notice stunts sharpen your senses, improve your reaction time, or make you harder to sneak up on.

**Investigate:** Deliberate, careful study and puzzling out mysteries. Use this to piece together clues or reconstruct a crime scene. Investigate stunts help you form brilliant deductions or piece together information more quickly.

**Animal Handling:** Training, care, and command of animals

**Survival:** Keep it together and under control under the stars, navigate in rough terrain, minor first aid. Stunts might give you bonuses in specific terrain or assist with the treatment of consequences.

#### Specialty Skills
Skills that are uncommon, take specialty training, or don't fit elsewhere

**Drive:** Controlling vehicles in unusual or extreme circumstances

**Crafts:** Ability to make or break machinery, build contraptions, and pull off MacGyver-esque feats of ingenuity. Crafts stunts let you have the gizmo on hand, give bonuses to building and breaking things, and provide justification for using Crafts in place of skills like Burglary under certain circumstances.

#### Alternative Skills
Skills for different styles or genres of campaigns

**History:** Knowledge of the past. Can be specialized with stunts. For games where there is a distinction between mythology and history

**Computers:** Advanced technological skills

**Engineering:** Design and construction. For games where crafts doesn't cover all item creation or career skills, or set in a more modern era

**Riding:** Control and riding of mounts. For games where animal handling or drive wouldn't be appropriate. (Like a game about running a stable and racing horses)

**Piloting/Boating:** Controlling space/air/water vehicles. Good for games where characters might come in contact with non-land vehicles frequently, or it makes sense for them not to be covered by drive

**Science:** Knowledge of the sciences. Can be specialized with stunts.

**Research:** Skill of conducting research. Overlaps a lot with investigation, but useful in some campaigns

**Language:** On a per language basis. +4 being a native speaker

**Local Knowledge:** Understanding and ability to maximize utility of a place. Can either be a general skill if the setting is in a single region/city/town/etc. or on a per location basis

**Adventuring/Dungeonering:** Catch all for adventuring knowledge (experience with monsters, common solutions, historic dungeon layouts, etc.)

**Gaming:** Playing games of skill. Can be on a per game basis, and can represent video or traditional games

**Urban Living:** Like survival, but for urban environments

**Academics:** Covers the domain of history, the sciences, general research, and the depth of human knowledge. Good for games that need a distinction from lore, but not separated into separate skills.

**Long Haul:** Navigate the highways, drive motor vehicles, know which gas station food will poison you, find roadside way stations (motels, gas stations, rest stops, etc.), and figuring out the most likely route for someone to take. Stunts might give familiarity with specific regions or provide justification for using Long Haul in place of Contacts or Pilot. Good for roadtrip games

**Caravan:** Like long haul, but for more historic or post-apocalyptic settings, and might include aspects of trading

#### Skill Categories
All skills are sorted into 1 of 5 categories: Physical, Mental, Social, Technical, and Specialty. By default these categories are only for ease of organization, and have no mechanical effect. However, player stunts or optional modules can interact with them. The default set of cover a fairly broad range of settings, though a skills place can changes places if appropriate.

#### Monsterology
When players need to roll to figure out the non-human foe they're facing. Overlap is common between the skills

- Lore: mythical monsters
- Arcana: magical monsters
- Nature: beasts and natural monsters

## Fate Ladder
| Value | Shifts    |
|:-----:|-----------|
|   -3  | Abysmal   |
|   -2  | Terrible  |
|   -1  | Poor      |
|   0   | Mediocre  |
|   1   | Average   |
|   2   | Fair      |
|   3   | Good      |
|   4   | Great     |
|   5   | Superb    |
|   6   | Fantastic |
|   7   | Epic      |
|   8   | Legendary |
|   9   | Divine    |

## Difficulty
The Fate Ladder already has built in difficulty scale well suited for pulp and cinematic campaigns, but that doesn't cover everything. Two additional difficulty ladders are included to help set check difficulties depending on the setting. Low fantasy/Gritty roughly mimics the probability of 5e, while High Fantasy is closer to something like Pathfinder or Conan. People in a high fantasy setting are going to being doing nearly impossible tasks much more frequently and easily, but lower level task are slightly more difficult.

| Difficulty        | DC  | Low Fantasy/Gritty | High Fantasy |
| ----------------- | --- | ------------------ | ------------ |
| Trivial/No Check  | 0   | -                  | +0 Mediocre  |
| Very Easy         | 5   | -1 Poor            | +1 Average   |
| Easy              | 10  | +1 Average         | +2 Fair      |
| Medium            | 15  | +3 Good            | +3 Good      |
| Hard              | 20  | +5 Superb          | +4 Great     |
| Very Hard         | 25  | +7 Epic            | +5 Superb    |
| Nearly Impossible | 30  | +9 Divine          | +6 Fantastic |
