## Stress Management

Stress Tracks
Characters will have at least one of either a Physical (Physique), Mental (Will), Social (Rapport or Empathy) stress track, and up to all three, depending on the focus on physical, mental, and social conflict within the campaign.

| Skill      | 1-point Boxes      | Scaling Boxes         | Varying Boxes     |
| ---------- | ------------------ | --------------------- | ----------------- |
| +0 or Less | [1][1][1]          | [1][2]                | 3 Points          |
| +1 or +2   | [1][1][1][1]       | [1][2][3]             | 5 Points          |
| +3 or +4   | [1][1][1][1][1][1] | [1][2][3][4]          | 8 Points          |
| +5 or +6   | Minor Consequence  | Minor Consequence     | Minor Consequence |
| +7 or +8   | 8 Boxes            | [1][2][3][4][5]       | 11 Points         |
| +9 or +10  | 10 Boxes           | [1][2][3][4][5][6]    | 14 Points         |
| +11 or +12 | 12 Boxes           | [1][2][3][4][5][6][7] | 17 Points         |

*With 1-point boxes payers may split stress between multiple stress boxes, and consequences. Under scaling and varying boxes, players may not split stress over multiple boxes or between stress boxes and consequences. If a character cannot absorb a hit with stress boxes, they must take a consequence. If they can't take a consequence, they are knocked out of the conflict. 1-point Boxes and Varying boxes have more versatility at the cost of being able to absorb less maxim stress.*

**Varying Stress Boxes:** [Fate Codex Volume 3, pg 71] Instead of the normal range of box values from 1 up to 4, players take the total value of their boxes on each track and reorganize the points. For example, a character would normally have a 1, 2, 3, and 4 value stress box. That’s a total of 10, which the player could reorganize into many low value boxes - five 2-stress boxes, for instance - or consolidate to a couple high value boxes, like two 4-stress boxes and a 2-stress box. Decided milestone swap out?

**Consequences and Conditions:** To start, characters have three consequence slots to absorb stress with on their character sheet: a (2) point minor consequence, a (4) point moderate consequence, and a (6) point severe consequence. Additionally, characters can choose to replace one of their existing character aspects as an (8) extreme consequence. They can gain additional consequence slots through skills.

Further, characters can buy into conditions as part of powers and abilities. Conditions function like consequences or stress tracks that only absorb stress in specific circumstances or spent as resources, while being tied to a specific aspect.

*For urban or other appropriate settings, characters can take, and enemies can inflict collateral consequences.*

**Collateral Consequences:** [Fate System Toolkit, pg 61] In addition to their usual complement of consequences, the players can also make use of three communal consequences, one of each degree of severity. These represent damage to the environment or new complications in the story, such as Injured Bystanders or Anti-Mutant Hysteria. Players can effectively use them to offload harm from themselves onto the world around them. A collateral consequence can be cleared just like a regular one, using an overcome action with whatever skill seems most appropriate, with two exceptions. One, it must be done during the scene in which the consequence is incurred. Two, there’s no delay - with a good enough skill roll it clears immediately. This option is best suited for genres, such as supers, in which the PCs are likely to care a great deal about the world around them.

#### Healing & Recovery
The campaign has three main options for healing and recovery:
**Standard:** Normal Fate RPG recovery. Stress clears at the end of every scene. Consequences take a roll equal or greater to the value of the consequence (+2 if you're treating yourself) and time to recover. Upon succeeding on the roll to treat, rename the consequence to note its in recovery. Minor consequences clear an episode after treatment (can be in middle of an episode). Moderate consequences clear an arc after treatment. Sever consequences clear a season after treatment. Extreme consequences clear after completing a character goal.

**Step Down Stress:** [Fate System Toolkit, pg 60] Stress goes away gradually rather than all at once. Instead of clearing a stress box automatically at the end of a scene, erase it and check the box to its left (assuming there is one). Consequences work normally.

**Tended Stress:** [Fate Codex Anthology Volume 3, pg 71] Stress only fades when narratively appropriate, such as when the characters have a chance to catch their breath and recover. Consequences work normally.

Step Down Stress and Tended Stress work well if their are alternative methods of recovery, such has health potions, medkits, or regenerative abilities.