## Magic & Superpowers

There are several pre-made options for including magic in a campaign where it’s appropriate. The systems vary in there degree of complexity and rigidity depending on the style of play. None of the systems are inherently mutually exclusive, and can be used with other magic systems, though they may require tweaking to be balanced against one and other.

- Add in bit on superpowers (like venture city)

#### None
If magic doesn't fit a campaign, don't include it.

#### Spell-Based
Designed to mimic the feel of spell based systems while being more inline with Fate Mechanics. Each spell gets it's own spell sheet, describing what it can do through stunts, skills, other abilities, and any penalties/limitations. These are summed together to calculate the spells total effective refresh, which becomes the spell's level. To use magic, characters must have an aspect describing their connection with magic and declare one skill their casing skill. The character then gains an extra Magical stress track, tied to their chosen skill. Casting a spell is a skill roll with a difficulty equal to the spell level. If a roll meets the difficulty, the spell goes off without a hitch. If a roll succeeds with style, the character casting may choose either a free boost or an extra invocation on any aspects created by the spell for every 2 shifts above success. If a roll does not meet the difficulty, they may succeed at a cost by taking Magical stress equal to the difference between the difficulty and their roll, otherwise the roll fails.

Spells can either come from a predefined list, or be created dynamically by players, depending on the style of campaign. Further, spell is a generic term, and could cover things like ancient scrolls, potions, ritual circles, etc. with the same system.

**Penalty Suggestions**
- Requires materials or resources
- Can only be cast under certain conditions
- Taking longer than one round to cast

**Variants:**
- **Extra over Aspect:** Rather than declaring the connection to magic with an aspect, create a "[magic skill]-caster" extra costing 1 refresh
- **Classes:** Different spells can only be cast by specific magic skills, essentially forming different areas of magic different types of spell casters are skilled at

| Class          | Potential Skills |
| -------------- | ---------------- |
| Bard           | Lore/Performance |
| Wizard         | Arcana           |
| Cleric/Paladin | Religion         |
| Druid/Ranger   | Nature/Survival  |
| Psionic        | Will             |
| Sorcerer       | Will             |
| Warlock        | Contacts         |

- **Schooled Magic:** All spells are part of one or more schools, as listed on their sheet. These schools don't do anything on their own, but aspects, stunts, and abilities may tie into them for additional effect
- **Learned Spells:** Spells can't be created dynamically as players cast them, but rather have to be learned, either through study or observation. Spells are treated as a form of gear between **Loot** and **Props**. They can be found during adventures as gear, and learned by a character with a successful magic roll. If the spell's use is limited to the adventure, then it can be treated as a prop. If it is permanent, it can't have an effective refresh more then the current maximum for loot, and anyone who meets the spells requirements can add it to their spell-list. Characters can attempt to create a spell through research. (Add in spellcrafting system where permanent spells additions take longer and are harder to do, but don't require additional refresh cost, and limited use spells function like props)

#### Words of Power

#### Ritual Magic

#### Magic Skill

#### Aspect Invocation
Magic can only be used to create aspects

#### Varying Skills
- Add a caster aspect/stunt, then use regular skills depending on the magical task

#### Channeling
- Channeling [Fate System Toolkit, pg 131]

#### Borrowed Power
- variant of borrowed power [Fate System Toolkit, pg 132]

#### Runes
- Runes [Fate Plus Vikings, pg 27]
- Runic Enchantments?